>>ROBERT PHOENIX: Hi there.
I'm Robert Phoenix and
welcome to another edition
of "The Eleventh House."
And today we're
going to be looking
at the astrology of the
very first atomic bomb, that
is the atomic bomb that was
blown up at White Sands, New
Mexico, the Alamogordo facility.
The atomic bomb,
known as Trinity,
and named such by
Robert Oppenheimer.
We're going to be looking at
the astrology of that day, how
that bomb affected this country
and the chart of this country.
We'll also be looking at
Robert Oppenheimer's chart,
and we're going to be getting
into this whole concept
of the Manhattan
Project and also
the atomic explosions at
Hiroshima and Nagasaki.
And we'll also be exploring
the mystery of the 33rd degree
parallel, which plays
into this as well.
So let's get into the
astrology of the atomic bomb.
So here we have Trinity.
And Trinity took
place in-- let me just
get to the-- Well,
first of all, let
me just tell you
where it took place.
It took place at 33 degrees.
This is a really important
number because there's a line,
it's the 33rd degree
parallel line,
that runs all the way
around the planet.
It's not just in
the United States,
but it also goes to Japan,
as we'll see, and places
like Syria and Libya and Israel,
and other very interesting
destinations along the way.
Phoenicia and Memphis.
We're talking Memphis,
United States, not Egypt.
So 33 degrees, Trinity,
the first atomic bomb.
Now, it took place on Monday,
the 16th of July, 1945.
And it was at 5:29 AM.
The universal time is 11:29.
If you add 11:29 together,
it's two plus 9 is 11,
and you have 11, so you have 22.
That's a master number.
That master number will come
up just a little bit later.
So this is what the sky looked
like when the bomb went off.
Now, the United States is a
Cancer country, born July 5,
theoretically.
There's a number of
interpretations, by the way,
of the chart for
the United States.
Some people use Gemini rising
for the chart of the United
States.
I use the Sibley chart,
which has Sagittarius rising.
And the reason I use Sagittarius
rising as the chart for the US
is because the horses
play such an enormous role
in the formation of
the United States.
But also, Sagittarius
represents sports, and outdoors,
and adventure, and expansion.
And that's what this
country theoretically did.
It expanded westward,
although the country
existed before it
became a country.
It was just the
expansion of the people
that came here to this country.
And, of course, the
interests and the passion
and the focus on sports
is representative
of Sagittarius in
the First House.
So I'm a little bit partial to
the Sibley chart, which I use.
So here, with this
chart, this is
where the sun was at the
time the bomb went kaboom.
The ascendant was in
the sign of Cancer,
which again, represents the
country, the United States.
And what's interesting
is that currently we
have Jupiter in
the sign of Cancer.
And I'm betting, although
I think Jupiter is probably
right around 12,
11 degrees, we're
having this discussion today.
By the way, it's 3/11 and it's
the anniversary of Fukushima.
I don't plan these things.
They just kind of
happen this way.
So we're talking
about atomic energy
on 3/11, the anniversary
of Fukushima.
Jupiter's in Cancer,
and it's retrograde.
So what are we doing?
We're traveling back in time.
We're taking a
Jupitarian express
into the Trinity experience.
So we have the true node
here in the 12th house.
And we also have
Uranus in Aries--
I'm sorry, Gemini in
the 12th house as well.
What does Uranus represent?
It represents uranium.
That's right.
Uranium, which plays a
role in the production
of the atomic bomb
and, of course,
the explosion of
the atomic bomb.
So we have uranium here,
Uranus in the 12th house.
Gemini.
So there is, again,
with the 12th house
a real sense of mystery.
Like what's behind the curtain?
What's behind the veil?
What has sunken beneath the
surface of the 12th house?
And so we have this interesting
relationship between Venus
and the eleventh house, right
there on the cusp of the 12th,
and Uranus, which would
indicate that there
is some kind of group
effort involved here.
Because the eleventh
house represents groups.
And the Manhattan Project
was a group effort.
Nobody knew what was happening
with the Manhattan Project.
Everybody had their own
little task to fulfill,
but they really didn't
understand how that task
or how that mission or
how that problem would
fit into the greater whole.
That would be up to
Robert Oppenheimer whom
we're going to look at
in just a moment or two.
So here we have
the relationship,
the eleventh house.
The group effort.
There's Mars, there's Taurus
in the eleventh house as well.
Mars and Taurus.
And it manifests over here
in the mystery of the 12th.
The finished product
is in the house
of mystery, the 12th house.
And the true node
here is in Cancer.
And what's interesting
is is that theoretically
there should be some kind
of Cancerian sort of-- I
don't know, what's
the word I'm looking
for here-- a Cancerian kind
of application towards this.
Maybe it manifests in
x-rays or some other form
of nuclear medicine
as a result of this.
But certainly, it
is not necessarily
a nurturing energy,
the atomic bomb.
I don't necessarily
view it as nurturing.
However, we do
have the sun here,
and we're harnessing
the power of the sun.
Right, isn't that
what they're doing?
They're harnessing the power of
the sun with the atomic bomb,
and so the sun is
fairly prevalent.
13 degrees of senate.
There's Saturn right
there on the ascendant.
And Saturn is what?
Saturn is karma.
So there are karmic implications
of what's about to take place.
Keep that in mind:
karmic implications.
And we're going to get into this
towards the end of the show.
It's kind of interesting.
So here we have the sun and
Saturn on the ascendant.
And then down in the
second house there's Pluto.
And Pluto is in the sign of Leo.
It's at the ninth degree.
There's a lot of nines here.
Pluto, nine degrees, Leo.
True node nine degrees Cancer.
Venus nine degrees Gemini.
And so the number nine shows up.
Nine is the number of
the soul, by the way.
And then we have Mercury here
in Leo in the second house.
The second house
represents values.
It represents grounding,
the foundation.
And so what do we have?
We've got Pluto, plutonium.
And the power of the sun,
Leo, second house-- land,
White Sands, Taurus.
That's what's happening.
That's what's taking place.
And then we have a square
between Mercury and Mars,
and Mars, of course,
being representative
of the second house
in the sign of Taurus.
Then moving along
in the chart, we've
got Jupiter down here in Virgo.
And Chiron at the
29th degree of Virgo,
which happens to be my sun
sign-- kind of interesting.
So Chiron is at the edge.
It's almost at the
fourth house, on the cusp
of the fourth house--
the third and the
for-- we might even read
that for the-- in fact it is.
It's right on the IC.
So the fourth house is
the house of Cancer,
and it's the homeland, right.
It's the United States.
So here we have Chiron
coming in and getting
ready to afflict the
fourth house in some ways.
So this is an
interesting planet.
I'm sorry.
It's not even a planet.
It's an asteroid.
And it's in Virgo, so it has
something to do with what?
Health.
So perhaps, what
we're seeing here
as a result of the
explosion of Trinity
is the potential for what?
Cancer.
Perhaps cancer and the
rise of nuclear power,
the proliferation of
nuclear power plants
as it relates to the fourth
house, which is home.
Perhaps this Chiron in
Virgo at the 29th degree,
the anaretic degree is a
harbinger of what's to come.
We have Neptune here,
and we have the moon
in Libra, which I seem to have
been talking about quite a bit
today in other episodes, down
in the fourth house trying
to bring balance back
into the fourth house,
or back into the foundation
and the home of this chart.
It's kind of
interesting stuff here.
The mid-heaven is at 29.
So we're dealing with
anaretic degrees here, 29, 29.
In 13, the number 13.
What does the
number 13 represent?
It represents death,
in the major arcana.
Death.
That's the number 13.
Then over here, guess what?
We have 13 degrees Capricorn.
And where is Pluto?
You guessed it.
It's at 13 degrees
right now as we speak.
So we're having kind
of a Pluto return here
opposite Cancer
on the ascendant.
And what are we doing?
We're talking about
the atomic bomb.
You're having an archetypal
moment right now with me,
with Pluto over here, discussing
this and our relationship
to atomic energy.
There is a conflict.
Saturn is squaring
the moon here.
So there is a karmic impact
on this Saturn, Cancer, right?
And moon in the fourth house,
also in Cancer as well.
We're going to have to
balance this out some day.
And perhaps someday
soon with Pluto now
moving into the seventh house.
And at some point, and
it will be in 2015,
transiting Pluto will
oppose this Saturn
in Cancer 15 degrees.
So we're going to have
a reckoning of sorts
in this house of relationship
with Pluto plutonium
and this event.
And it'll happen in 2015.
And, again, we're
dealing with what?
The 15th degree.
Interesting stuff.
OK.
So let's move on here.
This is the USA chart,
the chart of the USA,
and the Trinity chart.
I put them together just to
see what we could come up with,
and the results are
pretty interesting.
The United States chart
is in the inside ring.
You can see the
ascendant and then
they're Sagittarius over here.
I'm using the Sibley chart.
And then there's a
fairly solid congregation
of planets over in this part
of the chart of the sixth,
the seventh, the eighth house.
So we're talking,
really, the end
of the second quadrant
and the beginning
of the third quadrant
of the chart.
And here we can see
some interesting pieces
come into play.
So we've got Uranus
here in the sixth house
of the United States' chart.
We've already determined the
Uranus represents uranium
and it represents instability.
It represents the explosive
power of change via Uranus
in the sign of Aquarius.
And here's Venus.
Uranus in Gemini.
Here's Venus in Gemini.
And guess what?
Oh yeah.
Uranus was also in
Gemini at the time
that the bomb went
off in New Mexico.
So we have a Uranus,
Uranus-- almost a conjunction
at that time.
But what happened was is
that we were beginning
to establish Venus, our
relationship with Uranian
energy and the atomic bomb.
That happens right there.
You can see the conjunction.
And as a result, we have to
again understand and diagnose
what the long-term consequences
of that relationship are,
because Uranus is
in the sixth house
here in the United States'
chart of health and healing.
Here it's moved into
the seventh and we now
have a full-blown
relationship with uranium.
The true node at that time when
the bomb went off in New Mexico
is in between.
It's the midpoint between
the sun and Venus.
So we're going to understand,
in some ways, our destiny
and our future
history as a country,
and even as a
planet in some ways,
as a result of this
action and this activity.
And we're dealing with
a lot of Cancerian
and a lot of lunar energy.
And when we play
with lunar energy
or we play with the
whole notion of the moon,
it's not always clear.
It's not like the
sun where it's bright
and we can see where we're going
and our shadows are illuminated
by the light of the sun.
The moon is quite different.
The moon often takes place
in shadow and darkness,
whether it's the full moon
or quarter moon or even
a new moon.
So we're in a realm where
we're dealing with instinct.
We're dealing with intuition.
In some cases, we're even
dealing with madness.
So there's a lot of
lunar energy that's
been evoked by this event.
And here again we
can see that Saturn
is almost right on the US sun.
So we have a karmic
relationship with this energy
and with this event,
which obviously,
and we just talked
about, as a result
of the Pluto-Saturn
opposition, which is coming up.
And here we have the sun
in Cancer conjuncting
the United States'
Mercury in Cancer as well.
So we are able to-- this
event not only impacted
us karmically, but it
impacted how we communicate.
And in some ways, I
think that the explosion
of the atomic bomb, because
what we're looking at here
is Mercury in the
eighth house, which
is the house of the
subconscious, the house
of death-- the house of
death, sex, transformation,
Hades, the underworld.
And I think that what
the atomic bomb did,
or what this explosion did
is it activated that Mercury.
And as a result, we had this
explosion of psychic material
that erupted in the 20th
century with psychotherapy,
with cinema, with
art, with novels.
And the psyche, the revelation,
explication of the psyche,
and making the psyche
known to the nature of man
became a really
important component
of the 20th century in our
exploration of ourselves
as a country and as a planet.
So this explosion, this
sun, literally radiating
into the eighth house
of the United States,
into our Mercury, I think was
a pretty interesting event,
which manifested in deeper
awareness, deeper psychological
and even shamanic awareness.
And it is, again, taking
place in the house of death.
Here's Pluto.
Transiting Pluto in Leo.
Right off the true node
again in the eighth house,
the house of death.
And we have Mercury here
almost in the ninth house.
And kind of an echo of
Mercury here at the beginning.
Mercury is retrograde, by
the way, in the US chart.
We move up to the
ninth house and here
is Neptune in the US chart.
Here's Jupiter, and
then here's Chiron.
What did we do after we blew
this bomb off in New Mexico?
We took it overseas.
We took it abroad.
We took it to Japan.
And that's what the ninth house
represents, other countries.
And then we began to build,
through GE, nuclear power
plants all over the world.
And then here we have,
again, this connection
between the moon and Saturn.
Over here we have the
connection between the sun
and Saturn as well.
So there is a karmic,
again, relationship
for using this energy.
And in some way, shape, or
form at some point in time,
we're going to have
to become peacemakers,
because that's what the moon
in Libra and Saturn in Libra
represents.
It represents peace
and mediation.
So in the long haul,
in the hopefully not so
distant future,
this will manifest
in not just peace for
us in this country,
but for the world
at large as well.
So let's move on here.
This is Robert Oppenheimer.
I have become the
angel of death.
That's what he said
after the bomb went off.
He is the not the
architect of the bomb,
but he was like the project
manager of the Manhattan
Project.
But it was his baby.
And apparently,
once it went off,
he was quite proud of himself.
So let's look at his chart.
What's really interesting--
let me go back to him.
What's really interesting
about Oppenheimer
is that he is the guy that
named the bomb Trinity.
That was his name for it.
He said it was inspired
by a John Donne poem.
But what's really
interesting about Oppenheimer
is that he was born
on the 22nd of April.
Now, I did a show on the Pluto
in Sagittarius generation.
And one of the members of
the last iteration of Pluto
in Sagittarius, which was just
before the American Revolution,
one of the people that
was born during that time
was James Freeman, who was
the first Unitarian minister.
And what did James Freeman do?
James Freeman
abolished the Trinity.
He got rid of the
notion of the Father
and the Son and the Holy Ghost.
And he was born on April 22.
And what did Robert
Oppenheimer do?
Born April 22.
He brought the Trinity,
or he brought Trinity back
into our consciousness.
It's kind of an
interesting juxtaposition.
When we look at
Oppenheimer's chart,
we see Gemini on the ascendant.
But if we were to put the
aspects of the explosion
of the atomic bomb
at White Sands,
it would all be in
his first house.
So he would be personally
identified with this.
This project would be
personally identified
with him, and vice versa.
Here we have Pluto in Gemini
and it's in the 12th house.
So we're dealing with what?
We're dealing with
plutonium, but we're also
dealing with Gemini.
So there are two
sides of that story.
There's the official
side of the story, which
is what we get with the
history of the atomic bomb.
And then there's the
unofficial side of the story.
The unofficial
side of the story--
you can look this up--
the Manhattan Project
was named after, theoretically,
Bernard Baruch who
supposedly funded
the Manhattan Project
and ran the whole thing out of
his apartment in New York City.
So Pluto here, plutonium.
Gemini, two stories,
or two different types
of interpretations,
a double narrative
shows up in 12th house,
the hidden house.
Now, it's trining Saturn in
Aquarius in the ninth house.
The mid-heaven's at
two degrees Pisces.
So he's got Saturn
in Aquarius here,
so he has a very Aquarian slant.
What is the plant
that rules Aquarius?
It's Uranus.
And of course, we're dealing
with uranium right here
on the seventh house cusp.
There is your uranium.
It opposes the ascendant
because Uranus is at 29 degrees
Sagittarius anaretic degree,
and it opposes his ascendant.
So there's this dynamic kind of
tension with the Uranian energy
that's pulling at him
in the seventh house
and the relationships that
he has within the Manhattan
Project all in
that seventh house,
and how he's going to
channel it and direct it
as the organizer and the
manager of the Manhattan Project
through that Cancerian
ascendant as well.
And we look at Aries here.
He's got Venus in Aries,
he's got Mars in Aries.
They are conjunct at 11 degrees.
There's 22.
There's the number 22 again.
And what did we see
with the universal time
for when the bomb went off.
It was at 22 degrees.
What day was he born on?
Actually it was
11/11, so it would
have been 22, the number 22.
And then we have Friday,
the 22nd of April,
so there's 22 again.
22's showing up in a big way.
And what is Aries?
It's the energy of war
and conflict and energy.
And he's got Venus
and Jupiter there,
and they're going to be
using this energy, obviously,
in Japan in the
military theater.
And this is all, again, it's got
a very wide house, 11th house,
which is the house of Aquarius.
And some people think
that the age of Aquarius
actually started when the atomic
bomb, the first atomic bomb,
went off.
So here we have the
next two atomic bombs
that were exploded in Japan:
Hiroshima and Nagasaki.
Now, look at the degree.
We had 33 degrees in New Mexico.
And here we have Hiroshima
being blown up at 34 degrees.
It's right along that 33rd
degree parallel, which
goes all the way
around the planet.
Now, what I found
was interesting.
I was just doing some
fact finding and research
on Hiroshima, and this
is the flag of Hiroshima,
and this is the
sign of Aquarius.
This is really interesting.
I'd never known that A)
Hiroshima had a flag, and B)
that it represented
the sign of Aquarius.
So there's really some
Aquarian and Uranian energy
that was already at
play with Hiroshima.
I think it's fascinating.
It's the wave bearer,
it's the birth
of the new age in some ways.
Now here we have Nagasaki, and
it is just a few degrees lower,
but still very, very close
to that 33rd degree parallel.
This is at 32 degrees.
So Hiroshima 34 degrees,
we have White Sands,
Alamogordo at 33 degrees,
and Nagasaki at 32 degrees.
And, again, Nagasaki is
a very interesting flag.
Here we have the five
pointed satanic star.
And inside the star we have the
cross, the symbol of the cross,
and then the scimitar,
which is the crescent moon.
Very interesting stuff.
So we have these esoteric
and occult flags, which
represent occult symbolism, for
both Nagasaki and Hiroshima:
the satanic star, the
five pointed satanic star,
and the symbol of Aquarius.
Now here, this is Hiroshima,
and here we have the phoenix.
This is a sculpture
in Hiroshima.
And it is a phoenix,
which is literally
rising from the ashes
of the atomic bomb,
and it's standing
on top of the world.
This is the symbol of the
new life of Hiroshima.
So guess what?
The city of Phoenix is at
33 degrees, the same degree
as the explosion at
White Sands, New Mexico.
Pretty interesting.
By the way, a tyre, T-Y-R-E,
in Phoenicia is also at 33
degrees.
And we have Phoenix
at 33 degrees.
Phoenix, Phoenicia.
Interesting connections.
But there's more.
There is more to the
33rd degree parallel
and the mystery of
the 33rd degree.
Events, major events take
place along this line.
Not just the explosion
of atomic bombs--
those are not
trivial, by the way.
But other events that
have changed our lives.
Let's find out some of those.
This is, theoretically,
this is a depiction
of the crash of
the UFO at where?
Roswell.
At what degree?
33 degrees, again.
And apparently,
the Roswell crash
took place after the
atomic bomb went off.
And that theoretically,
the atomic bomb had opened,
ripped a portal in the
time-space continuum,
and that these flying
saucers were now
coming through the rip in
the time space continuum.
This is what apparently
happened, according
to people inside
the UFO community.
And as a result,
the UFOs weren't
necessarily extraterrestrial,
but innerdimensional.
And the Roswell crash,
apparently, they
were able to retrieve
a body from this.
This is part of the
folklore of Roswell,
which is a really important
part of the 20th century.
And they were able to retrieve
an alien, a gray alien
from this which they
kept alive, and they
called this gray alien EBE,
extraterrestrial biological
entity.
That's what the initials were.
And apparently EBE was a liar.
They had figured out
a way to talk to EBE,
and asked him questions.
And eventually,
they kept him alive,
and he was sort of this kind
of chlorophyll-based being.
And he started to talk to them
and give them information.
And as a result of
this information,
they used it to
contact EBE's people.
And the character ET is
actually based on EBE.
And so then what
happened is they
started to send a
signal through space.
And then EBE's homies
started showing up.
And that's when
things apparently
got very interesting.
Dwight Eisenhower was called in.
Gerald Light, who
was a metaphysician.
There was a bishop
that was called in.
There was military.
And they met with
EBE's homies, who
were essentially
the gray aliens.
And what they did is they showed
them really mind-blowing stuff,
and that's when the deals
were made to sort of trade off
technology with being able to
abduct and temporarily hang out
with humans and take
flesh samples and all
those good things.
So it all starts
really, theoretically,
on the heels of the atomic
bomb explosion, which
happens on the 33rd
degree parallel.
There's Roswell.
There's more.
Bermuda Triangle.
Here we see the
Here's Miami, Puerto
Rico, and here is Bermuda.
If you were to cut across, all
the way across the country,
you would see that this is
the 33rd degree parallel.
So the Bermuda Triangle, which
is an interesting vortex,
is at the 33rd degree parallel.
Here's another really
interesting 33rd degree event.
Actually, it's around 30-- I
believe it's at 34 degrees.
This is JFK, and he's
killed on 11/22, 1963,
and it's on that same parallel
that the atomic bomb was
exploded on in
Alamogordo/White Sands,
and, of course, Nagasaki
and Hiroshima and Roswell
and the Bermuda Triangle.
So it's all happening
right on that line.
Right on that line.
And, of course, we've
explored this in other shows
with the alternate
timeline of JFK
and what happened
as a result of this.
And, perhaps, powering
that on the back end
was the explosion
at White Sands,
New Mexico, which was the
catalyst for the quote,
unquote, "the beginning
of the new age."
There's other events.
Here's Charles Manson.
The Manson family, the
Tate-LaBianca murders
took place at the 34 degree
parallel in Los Angeles.
There is also the Black
Dahlia, there's Roman Polanski.
There's all kinds of other
crazy, insane, Hollywood-based,
trauma-based events,
ritual-based events,
occult events, all coming
out of Los Angeles, all
on the 34 degree parallel.
Martin Luther King was
killed in Memphis-- Memphis,
the City of Kings.
That's what Memphis
is, the City of Kings.
Martin Luther King was killed
in Memphis, the 35th degree
parallel, just a
few degrees off.
But again, part of this line.
And here's Charles Manson.
So there is a rich-- the 33rd
degree parallel is a ritual
line that runs all the
way around the planet.
And we can see where atomic
bombs and atomic events,
like the death of Kennedy, have
absolutely altered and changed
history and even our timeline.
Another event which took place
on the 33rd degree parallel
was the Heaven's Gate
event, which took place
in San Diego in
Ranch-- where was it?
Rancho San Diego?
It was in San Diego, and again,
the 33rd degree parallel,
which is also part and parcel.
Again, extends all
around the planet,
so you can see it show up in
the Middle East and Egypt, too.
So there we go.
We have explored the
astrology of the atomic bomb
and the ramifications of it.
And, again, Pluto's
in Capricorn,
and it's going to be swinging
around and opposing that Saturn
at 15 degrees, which is
right on the ascendant.
So between now and
then we're going
to have some really interesting
pieces of information
and ephemera that
are going to emerge
around the atomic bomb,
that first atomic bomb.
And I think we're going to be
dealing with the karma of that,
the planetary
karma, and the karma
as it relates to
this country as well.
And, of course, we're
on the brink of war,
theoretically, in Ukraine, and
there's a whole other series
of events that are taking
place in the world which
are putting everybody on edge.
The Cold War is
beginning all over again,
folks, and the atomic bomb
was everybody's best friend
during the Cold War or their
worst enemy, one of the two.
That's it.
I want to thank
you for joining me
on yet another edition
of "The Eleventh House."
I'm Robert Phoenix and may
the stars always be with you.
[MUSIC PLAYING]